In the last lecture, we created our first shape,
now let's actually display some data, some static data for now but that is a huge step towards making
it truly dynamic and allowing us to input data later.
So back in my code editor, I now want to display more than one shape and more importantly, I want to display
as many shapes as needed to display my data.
Now for that, we need to do quite some changes,
so let's start. First of all, I want to add a new property, I'll name it bar container,
this should actually hold my bars of the bar chart later on,
this will also be a d3 selection holding some svg element, svg element without the 'a' in between.
Now I will initialize this in the constructor,
after we created this svg, I now want to store a new element in this newly created bar container property,
this new element will use this svg element we created
and here on that, I actually want to call append and append a 'g' element. 'G' is just a group grouping all the
bars together,
this is optional but it gives this a clearer structure.
I'll also add a class to this,
the class will be bar container so that all the bars are in that container.
Now with that, I'll also add true here to assign this class, I created this container,
of course we also need the individual bars.
Now for that, I need to go to the update method because remember, whenever you want to actually display
something, that should go into the update method because you probably want to update it whenever something
changes about your visual.
So instead of creating this rectangle here which we did before, I now want to create my bars. Now for
that, I'll store them in a variable here since I only need them in this update method,
so no need to store them in a property and I will get access to my bar container, this group
we just created here. This bar container here,
I will call select all to select all elements which have a CSS class of bar.
Now initially, that are zero elements but that is a great feature of d3.js,
I can access all elements which have a bar class and that will be more of course if we already
did render some bars and then add new data for example, then all of a sudden, we want to change some parts
of our chart and we select all, we make sure that we select all the existing ones so that d3 is
aware of how many we already have and then can internally figure out how many new ones it needs to create.
So I select all elements which have the bar class here
and next I want to connect it to some data.
Now we don't have any data here,
so I'll add some static data and I will add this static data here in my module but outside of this class.
I'll simply name it static data, it will be a variable and I will make this an array of data.
Now each data piece here will be a Javascript object which is written like this
and there, what we will have is value, could be 10 and a category, I'll name this China because I want
to work with revenue data here for example.
Now I'll add another object, let's say value 8, category
could be USA
and of course feel free to use any data you want here but you should have a value in a category, then value
11 here,
category India and let's add a fourth one where we say value 6 or 5 since I mistyped and then category,
maybe Germany, whatever you like.
This is my dummy data and now we can use that down here to bind our bars to our data.
We do this by calling another method here, the data method
and that is a method provided by d3.js which will do or which will set up all the magic in
the background where d3 will figure out how many new bars it gets to create and so on.
What we do here is we simply bind this to our static data array
we just created.
Now with that in place, we're not done though,
what we now need to do is, we need to enter these elements. Enter is another method provided by d3
and it actually makes sure that all that data enters our view,
however it does this in a clever way,
it will figure out which data points already were rendered and will only render the ones which are required
to be rendered.
So enter is called and thereafter,
I want to append a rectangle because enter will not actually create a shape,
it wouldn't know which one,
it just tells d3, be prepared to add something
but we do
this something with the append call thereafter.
So there we tell d3.js, for each data point you want to enter,
please create a rectangle.
And finally, I will add class here to give each bar a CSS class of bar and I'll also add true here.
So that will create the individual bars,
now to see something, we need to give these bars some styling. So we can call the attr method on the
bars we just created and here, the attributes I want to assign is of course width, height,
we also need to define the position and some fill color.
Now the interesting thing is width and height,
how do we define this?
That is relatively tricky because we need to change this dynamically once we resize the visual, we'll
come back to this in one of the next lectures,
for now let's give this a width of 20,
and what about the height? That should of course depend on the value, right?
So maybe since we have relatively small values of 10, 8 and so on,
let's use the value times 5.
The nice thing is since we're using d3, we can get access to the data here,
we can write this in a function form and use an arrow function which means the argument is data and
the function body now comes to the right of this arrow.
You could wrap it in curly braces but if you only have one line, you can omit these
and there you could say data.value*3
maybe, that will be the height.
Now this will automatically be returned, if you were to wrap this in curly braces, you would have to add
a return statement in front of it
but since I omitted these, I can omit the return statement too. That defines width and height,
we also need to define the x and y coordinate.
Now for this, it's important to understand that the coordinate system used by d3 starts in the
top left corner,
so in the top left, we have 0,0,
therefore x should take into account which bar we actually render. The first bar might use the 0
coordinate but it should also be shifted a bit to the right but the next bar certainly needs to be shifted
to the right
otherwise it will sit right on top of the previous one.
So here, it's pretty tough for us to find out where we exactly want to place these bars.
So let's have a look at how d3.js helps us with scaling in the next lecture.